By the time you read this, Bloodhound will already have started the 5,500-mile journey south to its Hakskeenpan desert track in South Africa.
There's been a huge amount of work over the past few weeks to get the car ready.
Some of the key bits of hardware on the car have only recently arrived, including our Rolls-Royce EJ200 jet engine, once all the paperwork was in place (borrowing a state-of-the-art military jet engine is, quite rightly, a non-trivial process).  
Each bit then needs testing to make sure it will work when we unpack it 5,500 miles away in South Africa.
This includes the complex jet engine systems, which have to mimic the controls of the Eurofighter-Typhoon to make the jet engine think it's at home.
Our first attempt to simulate a jet engine start was unsuccessful (I would emphasise the word "simulate" - we've got a great relationship with our hosts at Berkeley Green UTC, but if we fired up a jet engine inside the college, the relationship might become a little strained).
The wheel hubs are an "interference fit" inside the wheel bearings.
While we've been busy getting the car ready, the Northern Cape government has been doing some terrific work to get the desert fully race ready.
When we arrive out in South Africa, we'll have to get the car ready to run on the desert.
Once everything has been checked over, we'll be ready to start our high-speed test programme.
Every single run will have a detailed schedule, known as the "run profile", with a target speed and a list of test objectives.
We're planning on up to 12 run profiles, with the later runs depending on the results from the first few tests.
The good news is that I don't have to memorise this whole list.
Each time we run the car, the team will agree the exact details of the profile(s) the day before we run.
Each run will have a long list of test objectives.
To fit all the test points in, I'm planning to break the run up into three phases, possibly more.
For the first test run, we'll start with phase 1, a static engine test, to check engine start-up procedure, check for leaks and check the onboard systems.
After that, phase 2 will be the first rolling test.
Phase 3 of the first test run (which we may need to repeat a couple of times) will use gentle acceleration (no reheat) to accelerate to a maximum of 100 mph.
There's more to add to that list, but you get the general idea.
They'll produce some really exciting shots of jet engine reheat and the desert tearing past at 500+ mph, all of which we will be posting on the Bloodhound website over the next few weeks.
Finally, when we get to South Africa, I'll get to wear the new "Bloodhound LSR" race helmet for the first time.